# Aesthetics based Image scoring using neural networks

## Abstract
### Nowadays, more and more people decide to publish their photos on various types of social networks. They want their published photos to be the best possible and to be liked by as many people as possible. To this end, they choose the most beautiful from many photos taken during one session. In the literature, a widely discussed topic is the automatic assessment of the aesthetics of photos with the use of machine learning and neural networks. However, this is not an easy task because aesthetics is not clearly defined and may be assessed differently by different people. The difficulty is also that the computer is not able to see the photo in the same way as a human. In this paper, at the beginning, a review of the literature on the automatic assessment of the aesthetics of photos using machine learning and neural networks was carried out. Then the basic issues related to ordinary and convolutional neural networks were discussed. In the next step, three different convolutional neural network architectures were created to test their effect on the prediction accuracy of image aesthetics assessments. These networks differed from each other mainly in the number of convolutional layers, max-pooling and densely connected layers, and the number of filters in the convolutionary layers. The results of the network operation were presented using three indicators: the maximum and average error of evaluation and the accuracy of assigning images to one of two classes: high or low aesthetics. Then, from the three networks, the one with the best results was selected to compare them with the results obtained by other people also involved in building artificial neural network models for assessing the aesthetics of images.


### Full description of the project (in Polish) can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ij8pR-j8uiJpABA_kjCCsSfxCpT8aWSw/view?usp=sharing)

### Files with the best weights for each model can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1R1pjeRw47H759rEuUvlBl78H5tEzOcP8?usp=sharing)
